Ben, the humanitarian crisis in Gaza
seems to be growing worse by the hour.
Well, in fact, Wolf, the UN
is describing it as dire.
And I think the U.N.
is rather understating the case.
It sounds,
by all accounts
that it's callous traffic.
In addition
to the fact
that the death toll in
Gaza has now exceeded 1500.
The health system, by all accounts,
and according to the Palestinian health
Ministry, is in a state of collapse.
All the things you need to run a hospital
are slowly running out.
The fuel
for the generators
that keep the hospitals
running medicine,
basic
supplies are simply not
being replenished.
And therefore,
we're seeing that,
for instance, in hospitals
all around Gaza,
many of the injured are
simply put on the floor in the corridors.
There are no beds left.
The operating theaters are beyond
capacity now,
according to the United Nations.
There are 50,000 pregnant women in Gaza
who now have no access
to health care,
partially
because of the fighting,
but partially because the health workers
and all the facilities are being focused
on treating the injured.
Now, speaking of the injured, earlier
this evening, our colleague
Christiane Amanpour spoke to Dr.
Hassan Abu City,
who's a
Palestinian British
doctor who has been going
to Gaza regularly.
I've interviewed him
many times,
also in
operating theaters
while he's actually
operating on the injured.
And he says that the among the wounded,
30 to 40% of them are children.
And certainly there is a
sense in Gaza that
at this point
people feel that the ordinary civilians,
they are simply being abandoned
but are not doing enough.
No one cries over us.
There's no chivalry, no feelings.
Hearts are dead.
Only shocks and body parts remain.
People are blind to this.
People can't find food in their homes.
And there is an extremely
tough social condition in Gaza.
Siege above the siege.
And all of this is happening
because of the siege.
Where should our people go?
We've been besieged for 18 years.
Where should we go?
And and of course, where can they go?
They cannot go anywhere.
The border to Egypt is closed.
They can't go into Israel.
The United States
and other European powers
are trying to figure out
some sort of humanitarian corridor
so Palestinian civilians
who have to can get out of Gaza.
But at this point,
no progress on that front.